---
Title: Implementing IActionable
Created: 8/12/2013 3:31:40 PM
Addendum: Republished from News Articles version
Approved: False
Draft: False
---
# Implementing IActionable

---

## Implementing IActionable


TBA -

 



 
## DRAFT NOTES/Content …
 

DotNetNuke offers a lot of flexibilty when it comes to adding ModuleActions. This is evident in all the properties of the ModuleAction class as well as the number of ways that the ModuleActionCollections.Add method can be called (there are three versions to choose from, one of which has seven optional arguments). That flexibility can lead to some hesitation for module developers: Which one should you use?

 



 

Every ModuleAction should have (as a minimum) an ID, Title and CommandName. The ID can be generated by calling the GetNextActionID() method of your View control (this method is defined in PortalModuleBase). The Title should come from your View’s resource file (.resx); it can be retrieved by calling the GetString() method of the DotNetNuke.Services.Localization class, as shown in the following code snippet.

 
Localization.GetString("ShowAllReservations", LocalResourceFile)

<!--CRLF-->
 

The CommandName can be any string you want, since it’s only used by your code (and is not displayed as literal text to the user). For example, you could use “ShowAll” as a command name. To add this minimal information, your ModuleActions property would look like this.

 
Public ReadOnly Property ModuleActions() As Actions.ModuleActionCollection Implements IActionable.ModuleActions

<!--CRLF-->

        Get

<!--CRLF-->

            Dim Actions As New Actions.ModuleActionCollection

<!--CRLF-->

            Actions.Add(GetNextActionID(), Localization.GetString("ShowAllReservations", LocalResourceFile), "ShowAll")

<!--CRLF-->

            Return Actions

<!--CRLF-->

        End Get

<!--CRLF-->

    End Property

<!--CRLF-->
 

Besides these minimum

 



 

If only this minimum information is supplied, then DotNetNuke will raise an event which your View control can capture by adding an event handler. This is a useful behaviour for extra functionality (such as sorting, searching or filtering data) that you want to give users who are simply viewing your content. A good place to add the event handler is in the Page\_Init, as in the following sample.

 
Private Sub Page_Init(ByVal sender As System.Object, ByVal e As System.EventArgs) Handles Me.Init

<!--CRLF-->

        AddActionHandler(AddressOf ModuleAction_Click)

<!--CRLF-->

        MyBase.OnInit(sender, e)

<!--CRLF-->

    End Sub

<!--CRLF-->
 

Then you can write a method to handle the module action as you see fit.

 
Private Sub ModuleAction_Click(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As Entities.Modules.Actions.ActionEventArgs)

<!--CRLF-->

        Try

<!--CRLF-->

            If e.Action.CommandArgument = "ShowAll" Then

<!--CRLF-->

                ' your code to "ShowAll" goes here... 

<!--CRLF-->

            End If

<!--CRLF-->

        Catch exc As Exception

<!--CRLF-->

            ProcessModuleLoadException(Me, exc)

<!--CRLF-->

        End Try

<!--CRLF-->

    End Sub

<!--CRLF-->
 

Most of the time, developers are interested in adding a ModuleAction that allows the user to access the



---

